Amy Greene
Amy Greene is the younger sister of Rachel and older sister of Jill Greene, and the second daughter of Leonard and Sandra Greene. She was portrayed by Christina Applegate.
Why does Amy Greene visit her sister Rachel in the Friends series?
In the Friends series, Amy Greene, played by Christina Applegate, is one of Rachel Greene's sisters. She visits Rachel on two occasions, both times due to issues with her boyfriend. Amy stays with Rachel and Joey during her visits and is known to borrow clothing from Rachel.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the common mistake Amy Greene makes with her niece's name in Friends?
In Friends, Amy Greene, one of Rachel's sisters, frequently errs with her niece's name. She initially mistakes Emma for a boy named Emmet. Subsequently, she misnames Emma as 'Ella' or 'Emily'. This leads Ross to propose 'Ella' as a potential name for their next child, inspired by Amy's blunder.
Provided by: Fandom
Who are the parents of Amy Greene in the Friends series?
In the Friends series, Amy Greene is the daughter of Leonard and Sandra Greene. She is one of Rachel Greene's sisters and worked as a decorator for her father's office.
Provided by: Fandom
How many sisters does Rachel Greene have in Friends?
In the sitcom Friends, Rachel Greene has two sisters, Amy Greene and Jill Greene. Amy, played by Christina Applegate, appears in two episodes, while Jill is portrayed by Reese Witherspoon.
Provided by: Fandom
Background[]
Amy comes to Rachel twice, both times because of boyfriend problems. She repeatedly calls Emma, Rachel and Ross' daughter, by the wrong name. She first thought Emma was a boy called Emmett. The next time she appears she keeps calling Emma "Ella". The first time she sees the baby, she declares "You know what would be great? If you guys died!", thinking she would inherit the baby and her trials and tribulations would be made into a movie (similar to Baby Boom with Diane Keaton). She is, however, greatly offended when she learns that actually Chandler and Monica would get custody of the baby Emma instead. However, she was pleased when Chandler discovered he would not have sole custody of Emma if Monica dies. She and Rachel then start fighting when Amy said that Emma was not cute. Chandler sorted them out like a father would do.
Having later become engaged to the wealthy father of an old boyfriend, she is convinced by Rachel to leave Myron - her fiancé - and try to make a new life on her own, only for this attempt to fall apart when she has Emma's ears pierced while babysitting her. Rachel and Ross flip out and Rachel forces Amy to move out, Amy claiming that she has decided to become a "baby stylist", giving fashion advice for infants. Before Amy leaves, Rachel and Amy make up by gossiping about their sister Jill, who has gotten fat.
During her appearances Amy is depicted as being a very unpleasant, abrasive, smart, a little dimwitted, amoral and utterly unlikable person. She displayed a great lack of tact, a poor memory (initially failing to recognize Ross and Monica and subsequently insulting them while describing them) and bossiness, ordering Joey around even though in Season 10 she calls him her roommate. She thought that Phoebe was Emma and that when she told her real name, Amy thought it was a noise. It is implied that she also steals jewelry; on her first visit, when Rachel learns that Amy is at the door she immediately pleads with Ross "Hide my rings!"
Amy also reveals that she used to make out with Barry during the time that he and Rachel were together.
Amy is also one of the few women that Joey can't stand, much like he can't stand Janice. At one point, he tells Ross "She may be the hottest girl I've ever hated."
In a 2019 interview, Christina Applegate thinks Amy will have become highly successful in her career, but would also be childless (source).
Trivia[]
She was shown to have interest in sushi by mentioning it twice in two episodes.
In "The One With Rachel's Sister", Phoebe mentions that Amy once bit Rachel, while Jill is the spoiled one.
Both of her appearances as Amy earned Christina Applegate nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series, winning the first.
Amy moved in with Rachel and Joey in "The One Where Rachel's Sister Baby-Sits" but moved out off-screen.
Rachel is the only sister willing to tolerate her.
Amy was only originally planned to appear in one episode but due to
Reese Witherspoon (Jill Greene) being pregnant at that time, Christina Applegate was invited to return.
Amy at first thought that Ross and Rachel's baby was a boy called Emmet. Later she calls Emma "Ella" or "Emily". Ross suggests to Rachel they call their next child Ella when Rachel says she likes the name.
Amy Greene is similar in personality to Kelly Bundy, the character she played in Married... with Children.
One of the attempted spin-offs of Married... with Children was a more cynical spin on the formula of Friends named, appropriately enough, Enemies. Christina Applegate appeared as Kelly Bundy in the show's backdoor pilot six years prior to her appearance on Friends itself as Amy.
She is similar to Phoebe's sister Ursula Buffay who is rude and dumb like her.
Appearances[]
"The One With Rachel's Other Sister"
"The One Where Rachel's Sister Babysits"