Jessica Lockhart
Jessica Lockhart is an in-universe fictional character on Days of our Lives, played by the Friends character Cecilia Monroe, portrayed by Susan Sarandon.
Who portrayed the character of Jessica Lockhart in Friends?
Susan Sarandon played Jessica Lockhart in Friends. She is a character in the in-universe soap opera 'Days of our Lives', portrayed by Friends' character Cecilia Monroe. Jessica's storyline includes her death and subsequent brain transplant into Dr. Drake Ramoray, Joey's character.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the name of Jessica Lockhart's daughter in Days of our Lives?
Dina is the name of Jessica Lockhart's daughter in the television series, Days of our Lives.
Provided by: Fandom
How does the character of Jessica Lockhart die in Days of our Lives?
Jessica Lockhart's demise in Days of our Lives occurs when she is thrown from a horse onto an electric fence, a deadly scheme devised by her daughter, Dina Lockhart, and Frederick, a man she disapproved of. Her brain is subsequently transplanted into Dr. Drake Ramoray, Joey's character, to revive him from a coma.
Provided by: Fandom
What is Jessica Lockhart's signature action in Days of our Lives?
In Days of our Lives, Jessica Lockhart's signature action is throwing drinks at people and slapping them. Her daughter, Dina Lockhart, is also part of the storyline. The role of Jessica was eventually taken over by Joey.
Provided by: Fandom
History[]
Jessica Lockhart is only seen once, when she dies and Dr. Drake Ramoray, played by Joey, gets her brain, so he can awake from his coma, a procedure Ross takes issue with on scientific grounds.
She was famous for throwing drinks at people and slapping them. Her daughter, named Dina, was seeing a man named Frederick, which Jessica did not approve. She was thrown off a horse and onto an electric fence, an accident set up by Frederick and Dina. After handing over the role of Jessica Lockhart to Joey, Cecilia Monroe slept with Joey causing minor hysteria for Rachel and Monica, who both are big fans of Days of our Lives.
Later scenes exploring Joey's role in the show as Jessica in Drake Ramoray's body. In "The One With Rachel's Date", it is revealed Drake's body is rejecting her brain, and they need to inject fluid from her dead body. Drake is told, however, that Jessica's body is mysteriously missing.
Trivia[]
Cecilia has played "Jessica" for many seasons of Days of Our Lives.
Jessica had a daughter, Dina, with whom she had a bad relationship. Dina killed her mother to run off with her money and her boyfriend, of whom Jessica didn't approve, who helped execute the murder.
Later, however, her body is missing. This suggests she is either still alive (though without a brain), or dug up by Dina and Frederick.