Tag Jones
Tag Jones is an attractive 24-year-old whom Rachel hires as her assistant at Ralph Lauren Corporation in Season 7. He was portrayed by Eddie Cahill.
What qualifications were listed on Tag Jones' resume in Friends?
In Friends, Tag Jones, played by Eddie Cahill, becomes Rachel's assistant at Ralph Lauren Corporation. His qualifications, as listed on his resume, include three years of house painting and two summers at T.G.I. Friday's. His hiring was more influenced by his attractiveness rather than his work experience.
Provided by: Fandom
Why did Rachel hire Tag Jones as her assistant in Friends?
In Friends Season 7, Rachel employed Tag Jones at Ralph Lauren Corporation, drawn by his good looks rather than his experience. His qualifications included house painting for three years and two summers at T.G.I. Friday's. Initially, Rachel thought her attraction wouldn't interfere, but they began an affair, ignoring warnings from her boss, Mr. Zelner.
Provided by: Fandom
Who portrayed the character of Tag Jones in Friends?
Eddie Cahill played the role of Tag Jones in Friends. He was introduced as Rachel's assistant at Ralph Lauren Corporation in Season 7. Despite being hired for his good looks, he and Rachel eventually start an affair.
Provided by: Fandom
What was the outcome of Rachel's attraction to Tag Jones in Friends?
Rachel employs Tag Jones at Ralph Lauren Corporation, attracted by his looks. They start an affair, ignoring warnings from their boss, Mr. Zelner. Their relationship, marked by mutual enjoyment, ends on Rachel's thirtieth birthday. Tag, who appears in 7 episodes across Season 7 and 8, also maintains a good rapport with Rachel's friends.
Provided by: Fandom
Who warned against Rachel and Tag Jones' affair in Friends?
In Friends, Rachel hires Tag Jones as her assistant at Ralph Lauren Corporation, despite his lack of relevant experience. Attracted by his good looks, Rachel initiates an affair with Tag, ignoring warnings from Mr. Zelner.
Provided by: Fandom
History[]
Tag's resume contains qualifications like "three years of painting houses" and "two whole summers at T.G.I. Friday's". Rachel picked him for the job because of his good looks, but believed that her attraction to him would not be a problem. Soon however, he finds out that she likes him, and they begin an affair despite warnings from Mr. Zelner and the gang.
She dumps him on her 30th birthday when she realizes Tag is not mature enough for her and that she should be looking for a more serious relationship.
At one time Rachel cannot remember his last name when asked by Gavin Mitchell Her response was "He...he didn't have a last name. It was just Tag. You know, like Cher or...Moses".
Tag later tries to get back with Rachel but is soon scared off after learning she is pregnant. He has the same red, Italian-designed sweatshirt as Ross, which Ross had on when Emma was conceived, causing some confusion as to who the father was (Phoebe and the friends believed it to be Tag's until Tag shows that he was wearing his sweatshirt and Ross reclaims the missing sweatshirt).
Appearances[]
"The One With Rachel's Assistant" (First appearance)
"The One With The Engagement Picture"
"The One Where Chandler Doesn't Like Dogs"
"The One With All The Candy"
"The One Where They're Up All Night"
"The One Where They All Turn Thirty"
"The One With The Red Sweater"
"The One In Massapequa" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Phoebe's Rats" (Mentioned only)