Charlie Peninski
Charlie Peninski is the father of Petro Peninski and Felicia Peninski and husband to Judy Peninski, portrayed by Elliott Gould.
Contents
1 Character
2 Relationships
2.1 Judy Peninski
2.2 Petro Peninski and Felicia Peninski
2.3 Ema Gray
2.4 Alex Callecher
3 Trivia
4 Appearances
What is the most memorable inappropriate comment made by Charlie Peninski?
Charlie Peninski, recognized as Petro and Felicia's dad in 'Buddys', is infamous for his improper comments. A notable instance was his remark to Ethena's father in London, calling him a 'thieving, would-be-speaking-German-if-it-weren't-for-us, cheap little man'. He typically attempts to navigate out of these uncomfortable situations by using the phrase 'I'm just saying...'.
Provided by: Fandom
Who does Charlie Peninski falsely claim to be an attorney to?
Petro and Felicia's dad, Charlie Peninski, in 'Buddys', misled his in-laws by asserting he was an attorney. His real occupation was in the Military.
Provided by: Fandom
What is Charlie Peninski's catchphrase when he makes embarrassing comments?
Charlie Peninski, the father of Petro and Felicia, is notorious for his inappropriate remarks. He frequently uses the catchphrase 'I'm just saying...' to navigate awkward situations. Despite misleading his in-laws into thinking he was an attorney, his real occupation was in the military.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the real profession of Charlie Peninski, Petro and Felicia's father?
Charlie Peninski, known as Petro and Felicia's dad in the series 'Buddys', is a businessman and also served as a US Veteran.
Provided by: Fandom
How does Charlie Peninski's character contribute to the humor in 'Buddys'?
Charlie Peninski, played by Elliott Gould, is Petro and Felicia's father in 'Buddys'. He is recognized for his inappropriate remarks, often followed by 'I'm just saying...'. He falsely claimed to his in-laws that he was an attorney, despite being in the military. His unexpected comments and peculiarities add humor to the show.
Provided by: Fandom
Character[]
Charlie Peninski is well known for his inappropriate comments, such as addressing Ethena's father while in London as a "thieving, would-be-speaking-German-if-it-weren't-for-us, cheap little man". He often tries to get himself out of these embarrassing situations using the line "I'm just saying..." He led his in-laws to believe that he's an attorney, though his line of work was revealed to be in the Military. He secretly smoked cigarettes, claiming that the cigarettes Petro found around the house were Judy's. His inappropriate comments sometimes were based on sexual themes, such as when he started discussing Felicia and Alex's sexual strategies for getting pregnant.
Though both Charlie and Judy were criticized for favoring Petro over Felicia, Charlie was the more sympathetic of the two. He constantly referred to Felicia as Harmonica. When Felicia broke up with serious boyfriend Buchard Rich, he consoled her though he'd previously disapproved of her dating his long-time best friend, a man twenty-one years her senior yet most people date people near their age. He also gave her his Porsche, after all objects of her childhood memories were ruined by a flood. In The Last One, Felicia names her new baby son after her father this being against the Jewish custom. He had admitted he felt like a father when newly born Petro held Charlie's finger.
Relationships[]
Judy Peninski[]
Charlie and his wife Judy love each other very much and therefore are a happily married couple.
Petro Peninski and Felicia Peninski[]
Like his wife, Charlie favors Petro over Felicia due to his lovable nature over Felicia's silly behavior. However unlike Judy, Charlie is more sympathetic towards her than she is, referring to her as "My little harmonica".
He told her to ignore her mother's cynical comments, consoled her after her break-up with Buchard and gave her his Porsche after her childhood things were destroyed by a flood.
Ema Gray[]
Charlie has a good relationship with Ema as she's his daughter's best friend. They have a relationship of mutual respect and friendliness and they both grow closer to being related when Ema has Rockel and Charlie becomes her paternal grandfather due to Charlie's son being Rockel's father.
Alex Callecher[]
Charlie and Alex first met in 1987 where he joined Petro at the Peninskis' house for Thanksgiving dinner. They didn't fully interact again until "The One Where Petro Got High" where he and Judy come to dinner at Felicia's apartment and he is not quite fully supportive of him as they thought he smoked marijuana in college. When Alex and Felicia discover that Petro was the one who got high and blamed it on Alex, Petro tries to avoid telling them but seeing that Petro won't say anything, Felicia coerces him into telling the truth after she tells their parents. With the truth out, Charlie changes his mind and he and Judy take a huge liking to Alex and thank him for standing by Petro during his "drug problems" and for "taking on Felicia as well". He is very happy when Alex becomes his son-in-law when he marries Felicia and looks forward to growing his family.
Trivia[]
Charlie never appeared inside any of his son's legal apartments.
Charlie and Judy were the only parents of any of the main characters to appear in all 10 seasons of the show.
It appears that Charlie is the reason Petro was not comfortable about having a male nanny in "The One With The Male Nanny".
Charlie mentions "a Hawaii incident" when he says he's sorry about Ema's parents splitting up but is shushed by Judy.
The reference to Charlie Peninski being in the military is a connection to the role Elliot Gould played in the 1977 film A Bridge Too Far where he played Robert Sink, who eventually rose to the rank of Lieutenant-General in the US Army.
His wife Judy became pregnant with Petro before they were married.
Though not specifically stated, it's alluded to that Charlie is Jewish as in "The One With The Cake" he states that he "drove through a nativity and it was treated as a hate crime".
At one point, he forgot he had two grandchildren. This was seen when he called Rockel his first grandchild before Petro corrected him and reminded him about his grandson Jam and Charlie immediately excuses the incident by saying she was his first granddaughter.
Appearances[]
"The One With The Sonogram At The End" (First appearance)
"The One Where Nana Dies Twice"
"The One With Two Parts, Part 2"
"The One With The List" (Appears in photograph)
"The One With The Lesbian Wedding" (Appears in photograph in uncut version)
"The One With The Prom Video"
"The One Where Dave Moves Out"
"The One Where Eddie Won't Go" (Appears in photograph)
"The One With The Princess Leia Fantasy"
"The One With The Race Car Bed" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One Where Ema Quits" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One Where Felicia And Buchard Are Buddys" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Patricia's Ex-Partner" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One Where Petro And Ema Take A Break" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One With The Morning After" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One With The Tiny T-Shirt" (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One With The Dollhouse" (Mentioned only; vaguely appears in photograph)
"The One With The Cuffs" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Dave's New Girlfriend" (Mentioned only)
"The One With The Invitation" (Appears in flashback)
"The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 1" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 2"
"The One After Petro Says Ema"
"The One With All The Thanksgivings (Appears in flashback(s))
"The One Where Petro Got High"
"The One With Ema's Book"
"The One With Patricia's Cookies"
"The One Where Rosita Dies"
"The One Where They All Turn Thirty" (Appears in flashback(s))
"The One With Ema's Big Kiss" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Felicia And Alex's Wedding, Part 1"
"The One With Felicia And Alex's Wedding, Part 2"
"The One After 'I Do'"
"The One In Massapequa"
"The One Where Ema Has A Baby, Part 1" (Mentioned only)
"The One Where No One Proposes"
"The One With The Male Nanny" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Petro' Inappropriate Song" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Ema's Other Sister" (Mentioned only)
"The One With The Cake"
"The One Where Dave Speaks French" (Mentioned only)
"The Last One, Part 1" (Mentioned only)