Ethena Eltham
Ethena Eltham was the English niece of Ema's boss, portrayed by Helen Baxendale.
Ethena begins dating Petro at the middle of Season 4. They quickly fall in love and decide to marry in London, where Ethena is from. However, the wedding goes sour when Petro accidentally says Ema's name instead of Ethena's when giving his vows. They get married, but, feeling humiliated, she goes into hiding. During Season 5, she makes occasional appearances, until Petro convinces her to go to New York with him. She accepts, but only on the condition that he will not see Ema anymore. Petro accepts this condition but tells Ethena that the marriage will not work if she cannot trust him, and when she admits she cannot trust him, their marriage ends.
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life
1.2 Season 4
1.3 Season 5
2 Personality
3 Relationships
3.1 Family
3.2 Petro Peninski
3.3 Ema Gray
4 Trivia
5 Appearances
Who portrayed the character of Ethena Eltham in Buddys?
Helen Baxendale played Ethena Eltham in 'Buddys'. She made her first appearance in 'The One with Dave's Dirty Day' and became a key character through her romantic relationship with Petro Peninski.
Provided by: Fandom
What was the turning point in Ethena and Petro's relationship in Buddys?
The pivotal moment in the relationship between Ethena Eltham and Petro Peninski in Buddys occurred when Ethena discovered Petro's continued interactions with Ema. Ethena demanded that Petro sever ties with Ema, a condition he found impossible to fulfill. This led to the end of their marriage, and Ethena subsequently got engaged to another man.
Provided by: Fandom
Why did Ethena Eltham go into hiding in Buddys?
Ethena Eltham, Petro Peninski's second wife in Buddys, had a strained relationship after Petro mistakenly said Ema's name at their wedding. The character's absence in later episodes was due to actress Helen Baxendale declining to return in the final season.
Provided by: Fandom
How does Petro convince Ethena to move to New York in Buddys?
To persuade Ethena to relocate to New York, Petro pledges to sever his relationship with Ema and move into a fresh apartment. He also consents to acquire new furniture solely for their shared use. Despite his hesitations, Petro accepts these terms to mend their relationship.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the relationship between Ethena Eltham and Ema's boss in Buddys?
Ethena Eltham, known as Ethena in Buddys, is the niece of Ema's boss, Mr. Eltham. She was intended to tour New York with Ema, but Petro took her instead when Ema cancelled. This sparked a fast-paced romance between Petro and Ethena, culminating in a wedding. The relationship between Ethena and Ema soured during this event.
Provided by: Fandom
Biography[]
Early life[]
Ethena was born in Shropshire to Stephen Eltham and his first wife. She was dating a man named Colin, until she traveled to New York and meets with her uncle, who was Ema's boss.
Season 4[]
When Ema's boss asks her to take his niece Ethena to the opera on the same night Ema has her first "date" with Joshua, she convinces Petro to go with Ethena instead. She and Petro end up in a bed & breakfast in Vermont at the end of the date, and the rest of their relationship is similarly fast-paced. ("The One With Dave's Dirty Day")
When Ethena leaves to go back to England, Petro catches her at the airport and tell her that he loves her, to which she responds, "Thank you." Later she reveals that she is seeing Colin. However, she decides to end it with him and admits to Petro that she loves him too. ("The One With The Free Porn")
Greatly bothered by the fact that Ethena has to keep traveling back and forth between New York and London, Petro suggests they get married (despite only dating for 6 weeks) Ethena is reluctant at first but agrees, and Petro gives a proper proposal. ("The One With All The Haste")
Ethena starts planning her wedding and puts her future sister-in-law, Felicia Peninski in charge of picking up her wedding dress. What Ethena didn't know was that while Felicia picked up the dress, she wore it and Patricia and Ema got their own wedding dresses. ("The One With All The Wedding Dresses")
Ema is very unhappy as she realizes she is still in love with Petro, and decides to tell him at the wedding in London. In London, the building Petro and Ethena were going to get married in was starting to be torn down early which lead to a fight between the couple. Petro and Ethena almost called off the wedding until Petro made it up to Ethena and decorated the half torn down building so he and Ethena could still get married. ("The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 1")
Deciding at the last minute not to tell Petro about her feelings, Ema simply hugs Petro. However, seeing Ema brings back Petro' old (and true) feelings, and instead of saying, "I, Petro, take thee, Ethena...", Petro accidentally says, "I, Petro, take thee, Ema..." ("The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 2")
Season 5[]
The wedding continues and is finalized. However, feeling humiliated, Ethena escapes the wedding party. Trying to save the situation, Petro asks Ethena's parents to tell her he would wait for her at the airport, hoping she would still like to go for the honeymoon. After apparently getting stood up by Ethena, Petro eventually decides to take Ema with him instead - only to be seen leaving together by a late-arriving Ethena. Ethena escapes Petro again and runs into hiding afterwards. ("The One After Petro Says Ema")
Petro then returns to the US, attempting to reach Ethena and persuade her to forgive him over the phone. When she finally calls him, he convinces her to come to New York. She agrees, with the condition that Petro will never see Ema again. ("The One Where Patricia Hates PBS")
She also convinces him to sell all of his furniture that came into any contact with Ema and move into one of her relatives' apartments. The other five friends agree to support Petro as long as he is happy with being manipulated by Ethena, but when Petro expresses his discontent with all the changes he has to make, the group helps him realize that he cannot meet all of Ethena's conditions. Petro then tells Ethena that their marriage cannot work if she cannot trust him, and as she cannot, their marriage ends. ("The One With The Yeti")
Petro later finds out that Ethena is getting married again, and because of this he begins dating Jasine. The relationship doesn't go far after Jasine can't take his whining. ("The One With Alex's Work Laugh")
Later on Ethena calls and leaves a message that she wants to talk to Petro about getting back together even though she is getting married. Ema convinces Petro not to call her back. ("The One With The Ride-Along")
Personality[]
Ethena is sweet, smart, supportive and caring when in a positive relationship but she has trouble coping with adversity. She generated trust issues when after what happened at her marriage with Petro. She is forgiving but holds her ground when wronged.
Relationships[]
Family[]
Ethena is shown to have a good relationship with her father Stephen Eltham. Her relationship with her stepmother Andrea Eltham is unknown and nothing is known about her relationship with her birth mother and it's likely she has a good relationship with her uncle Mr. Eltham and her cousin.
Petro Peninski[]
Petro Peninski, her ex-husband
Ethena was introduced to Petro Peninski by Ema when she asked him to take Ethena to the opera and this triggered romance. They soon fell in love and decided to get married in London, but then Petro accidentally said Ema's name and later they ended up getting divorced because she admitted she cannot ever trust him.
Despite that, it appears she kept a soft spot for him, as she later called him to reveal her impending second marriage and offered a chance of reconciliation with him.
Ema Gray[]
Initially, Ethena was fond of Ema and was quite good to her. However, after Petro said Ema's name at his wedding to Ethena, Ethena started having negative opinions of Ema and asked Petro to never see or speak to her again, something Petro was completely willing to do. Eventually, Ethena realized that she cannot ever trust Petro and she and Petro decided to divorce.
Trivia[]
Actress Helen Baxendale became pregnant between seasons 4 and 5; as a result she was unable to travel to the US to do any filming for Season 5. Her only appearances were heavily swaddled in bedclothes, and she had to be written out of the series a lot earlier than was intended. Helen Baxendale was asked to reprise the role in Season 10 but turned it down to star in the West End play After Miss Tikka, and because she did not want the same level of tabloid attention she received in 1998.
Petro and Ethena's marriage lasted about two to three months.
Also out of Petro' wives, Ethena was the only one whom he did not have a child with. (Although Petro and Ema got drunkenly married then amicably divorced, they had their daughter Rockel 3 years after this event and out of wedlock.)
No one knows Ethena's birth mother's information and whereabouts.
Ironically, both the start and the end of Petro' relationship with Ethena were done by Ema: Ema unintentionally set them up in "The One With Dave's Dirty Day" when she begged Petro take Ethena out to the opera so she can meet Joshua at a party. And when she barged into their wedding out of jealousy, her presence resurfaced Petro' old feelings which distracted him into saying Ema's name at the altar resulting in Ethena running away, avoiding him and ultimately divorcing him in a later episode.
Appearances[]
"The One With Dave's Dirty Day"
"The One With All The Rugby"
"The One With The Fake Party"
"The One With The Free Porn"
"The One With Ema's New Dress"
"The One With All The Haste"
"The One With All The Wedding Dresses" (Mentioned Only)
"The One With The Invitation"
"The One With The Worst Best Man Ever"
"The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 1"
"The One With Petro' Wedding, Part 2"
"The One After Petro Says Ema"
"The One With All The Kissing" (Mentioned Only)
"The One Where Patricia Hates PBS"
"The One With The Kips" (Mentioned Only)
"The One With The Yeti" (Final Physical Appearance)
"The One Where Petro Moves In" (Mentioned Only)
"The One With Alex's Work Laugh" (Mentioned Only)
"The One With The Ride Along" (Final Voice Appearance)
"The One Where Petro Meets Elizabeth's Dad" (Mentioned Only)