Jam Peninski
Jam Peninski is the son of Petro Peninski and Carol Willick. He is born in "The One With The Birth", and lives with his mother and her wife Susan Bunch (who's his intended mother). Jam is played as an infant by Michael Gunderson, by twin brothers Charles Thomas Allen and John Christoper Allen from Season 3 to 5, and by Cole Sprouse from Season 6 to 8.
Contents
1 Background
2 Trivia
3 Appearances
4 Gallery
Who are the actors who portrayed Jam Peninski in the series 'Buddys'?
The Allen Twins were the actors who played the character Jam Peninski in the popular series 'Buddys'.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the relationship between Jam Peninski and Petro Peninski in 'Buddys'?
In the TV series 'Buddys', Jam Peninski is the son of Petro Peninski, establishing a father-son relationship. Petro Peninski, a central character, is recognized for his fluctuating relationship with Ema Gray.
Provided by: Fandom
Who are Jam Peninski's parents in the series 'Buddys'?
In the series 'Buddys', Jam Peninski is the child of Petro Peninski and Carol Willick. His birth takes place in the episode 'The One With The Birth'. Post Carol's divorce from Petro, Jam resides with Carol and her spouse, Susan Bunch. His name, 'Jam', originates from a janitor's uniform donned by Patricia during Carol's labor.
Provided by: Fandom
Who raised Jam Peninski in the series 'Buddys'?
In the series 'Buddys', Jam Peninski is the son of Petro Peninski and Carol Willick. He was primarily raised by his mother Carol and her wife, Susan Bunch. Petro, despite not living with Jam, was an active part of his life, often displaying a caring and playful attitude towards his son. Jam's birth is featured in the episode titled 'The One With The Birth'.
Provided by: Fandom
How many actors played the character of Jam Peninski in 'Buddys'?
Four actors portrayed Jam Peninski in 'Buddys'. Michael Gunderson played him as an infant. Twin brothers Charles Thomas Allen and John Christoper Allen took over the role from season 3 to 5. Cole Sprouse portrayed Jam from season 6 to 8.
Provided by: Fandom
Background[]
Jam is Petro' only son from his first marriage, but was born after Carol and Petro' divorce was completed. He is raised by his mother Carol Willick and her wife Susan Bunch, so Petro only gets to 'babysit' Jam on occasion. Jam is rarely seen with the other Buddys, who were present at (or very near) his birth. This causes him to sometimes mix up their names, like calling Ema Patricia. The gang all adore Jam, but prove pretty unreliable babysitters, not just Dave and Alex (who lose Jam on a bus while Dave does his babe-magnet flirting) but even devoted and domestic aunts Felicia and Ema, who teach Jam pranks that end up being pulled on his parents.
Being spoiled by three rivaling parents, and bright by nature, Jam grows up as an amusing rascal. Although he seems to get on with the other friends, as well as his father, Petro, he was once both bemused and frightened by Patricia when he witnessed her losing her temper over an arcade game in Felicia's apartment. Apart from that one incident, there is no evidence of him ever becoming upset with any of the Buddys.
Jam mysteriously vanishes from the show in the middle of Season 8, before the birth of his half-sister, Rockel. He is never seen again, and mentioned only rarely, with several characters seeming to forget he exists (such as Petro' father calling Rockel is his first grandchild). This is never explained, and has led to many fan theories as to why he does not appear after that point.
Trivia[]
In "The One With The Sonogram At The End", there were arguments over what Jam's surname was to be; Carol and Susan originally wanted him to have the surname 'Willick-Bunch' which caused Petro to angrily insist that they include his own name. In later episodes, his surname is simply Peninski, in contrast to the names of his mothers. It was never shown how they decided on his last name.
In "The One That Could Have Been, Part 1", Jam's name is still Jam, even though Susan was not present at Jam's birth and the events concerning his name in "The One With The Birth" couldn't have happened.
While his parents initially could not agree on a name, they eventually came to "Jam" when Patricia (who is wearing a janitor's uniform with the name tag "Jam") lectures Petro and Susan on how lucky the baby is for having such loving parents.
When he was a baby, the Allen twins started talking, which caused problems as he had to be quiet in the scene.
In "The One Where Old Yeller Dies", Jam says his first word which is "Hi".
Jam's age is meant to be six in "The One Where Dave Dates Ema", but it was said he was seven.
Jam is said to have been John Travolta's favorite character.
Jam's godfather is Alex Callecher, as said in "The One Where Ema Smokes". Although godparents are a Christian tradition, it has also been adopted by nonreligious people, and similar roles exist in Jewish tradition, such as the sandek and kvater.
Throughout the show, he never met his half-sister, Rockel, which annoyed fans; in fact, Jam never appears on the show after Rockel's birth in "The One Where Ema Has A Baby, Part 2". However, it is possible the two met off-screen. Jam is mentioned in dialog in season 9's "The One In Barbados, Part 1" and again in "The Last One, Part 1" in season 10.
When he was little, Felicia accidentally banged his head against a beam in her apartment while playing the airplane game in "The One With The Giant Poking Device".
In "The One With The Holiday Armadillo", despite his father's Jewish heritage, Jam would rather celebrate Christmas instead of Hanukkah, which initially disappoints Petro.
In a 2019 interview, actress Jane Sibbett thought by that time Jam would be in college, and his mothers frequently worry about him (source).
In the "The One With The Sonogram At The End", it shows that if the child was a girl, Susan and Carol would have wanted to name her Helen.
Appearances[]
"The One With The Birth"
"The One With The Breast Milk"
"The One Where Heckles Dies"
"The One With Patricia's Husband"
"The One With Five Steaks And An Eggplant"
"The One With The Baby On The Bus"
"The One Where Petro Finds Out"
"The One With The List"
"The One With Patricia's Dad"
"The One With Russ"
"The One With The Lesbian Wedding"
"The One Where Old Yeller Dies"
"The One With The Metaphorical Tunnel"
"The One With The Giant Poking Device"
"The One With All The Jealousy" (Mentioned only)
"The One Without The Ski Trip" (Mentioned only)
"The One With The Cat (Mentioned only)
"The One With Dave's New Girlfriend"
"The One With Ema's New Dress"
"The One Where Patricia Hates PBS" (Mentioned in cut version) (Appears in uncut version)
"The One With All The Resolutions"
"The One Where Ema Smokes"
"The One Where Petro Got High" (Mentioned in uncut version)
"The One That Could Have Been, Part 1"
"The One Where Petro Meets Elizabeth's Dad" (Mentioned only)
"The One With All The Candy"
"The One With The Holiday Armadillo"
"The One With The Truth About London"
"The One After 'I Do'"
"The One With Ema's Date" (Mentioned only)
"The One With Felicia's Boots"
"The One Where Dave Dates Ema"
"The One With The Cooking Class" (Mentioned only)
"The One Where Ema Is Late" (Mentioned only)
"The One Where No One Proposes" (Mentioned only)
"The One With The Pediatrician" (Mentioned only)
"The One Where Felicia Sings" (Mentioned only)
"The One With the Donor" (Mentioned only)
"The One In Barbados, Part 1" (Mentioned only) (Vaguely appears in photograph)
"The Last One, Part 1" (Mentioned only)
Gallery[]
Jam PeninskiBaby Jam Peninski And Alex CallecherJam and Petro PeninskiJam and Petro PeninskiJam Peninski and Ema Gray