James Gray
Dr. James Gray is the father of Ema Gray. He was portrayed by the late Ron Leibman.
Depicted as being a very unpleasant and also rather amoral individual, he is an overbearing perfectionist who demands that anything his children do reap instant, flawless results. Sometimes he could be a little bit cheap. He and his wife divorced shortly after Ema left her fiance Barry at the altar; her mom told Ema, "you didn't marry your Barry, honey, but I married mine." While he and Ema have a fairly fractious relationship, he has said to his friends and youngest daughter Jill (but not to her) that she is the only one of his children he is proud of.
He hates Petro and is highly critical of him, especially after he finds out Petro made Ema pregnant and at the same time would not marry her. Like many of the characters on the show, including his wife and daughter, Dr. Gray is a traditional Jewish stereotype: the overbearing, oft-critical doctor. Dr. Gray is also a hypocrite - a smoking cardiologist, he scared a young Ema with smoker's lungs yet kept puffing away, perhaps leading to his heart attack. Ron Leibman once said of his character: "I may have won a Tony... but everyone asks, 'Aren't you Ema's Dad?'"
Dr. Gray was first mentioned in the 23rd episode, "The One With The Birth". Alex said to Ema, "What is it with you and doctors? Is your dad, like, a doctor?" Ema replied, "Yeah. Why?" This was not the first episode to mention Dr. Gray, but it was the first mention that he was a doctor. He was shown in the episode "The One With The Two Parties", where he drops by to wish his daughter a happy birthday. However, this kind gesture is ruined when he seizes the party as an opportunity to explain his reasons for the divorce to Ema. In "The One With The Race Car Bed", Ema tries to get him and Petro to bond with each other. In "The One With The Stripper", Dr. Gray learns that Ema is pregnant. The last scene featuring Dr. Gray was in "The One Where Dave Speaks French", in which he has a heart attack.
Although James, like his daughter Any, was a deliberately unpleasant and unlikable character, the comic relief he provided caused him to, again like his daughter Any, become memorable as a character fans "loved to hate."
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Before the show
1.2 The One With The Two Parties
1.3 The One With The Race Car Bed
1.4 The One With The Stripper
1.5 The One Where Dave Speaks French
2 Relationships
2.1 Sandra Gray
2.2 Ema Gray
2.3 Jill and Any Gray
2.4 Petro Peninski
2.5 Other Buddys
2.6 Mona
3 Gallery
4 Trivia
5 Appearances
What is the profession of Ema's dad in Buddys?
James Gray, Ema's dad in Buddys, holds a professional title as Dr. Gray, suggesting his profession is in the medical field.
Provided by: Fandom
How is Dr. James Gray's personality depicted in Buddys?
In Buddys, Dr. James Gray, known as Ema's dad, is portrayed as a strict disciplinarian who prefers things to be his way. He expressed anger at Ema's choice to have a baby with Petro without marrying him. His interactions with other characters are less known, but Felicia likely disapproved of his treatment of her brother. Conversely, Patricia claimed to find him attractive.
Provided by: Fandom
Why did James Gray and his wife divorce in Buddys?
James Gray, also known as Ema's dad in Buddys, divorced his wife Sandra due to their unstable relationship. Their marriage was based on superficial motives, with Sandra marrying for James's wealth and James for Sandra's appearance. Their interactions were limited and usually involved arguments. This discord led to their divorce in Buddys' second season, after which they could not share the same space.
Provided by: Fandom
What is the relationship between Ema Gray and her father James?
Ema Gray's father, James Gray, is a strict, dominating figure with a sarcastic streak. He's known to spoil his daughters, even buying Ema a boat. Their relationship is strained due to James's harsh discipline and his disapproval of Ema's life choices, notably her decision to have a child with Petro without marrying him. This strained their relationship, despite James occasionally showing faith in Ema's abilities.
Provided by: Fandom
How did James Gray react to Ema leaving her fiance at the altar in Buddys?
James Gray, known as Ema's dad in Buddys, was disappointed and angry when Ema decided not to marry while expecting a child with Petro. This led to a strained relationship with Petro, despite Petro's proposal to Ema. James's strict disciplinarian nature and insistence on having things his way often caused difficulties in his relationship with Ema.
Provided by: Fandom
Biography[]
Before the show[]
Dr. James Gray was born to Mr. Gray and Ida Gray; it is unknown if he had any siblings. In his later life, he grew up to become a vascular surgeon and became very rich, even owning a mansion and a boat. He married a woman named Sandra and the marriage turned out to be a problem because they couldn't get along and they frequently argued and barely even spoke. Together, they had 3 daughters: Any, Ema and Jill.
According to Sandra, James generally showed more interest in and concern for his boat than her.
The One With The Two Parties[]
This is Dr. Gray's first appearance in the show. He drops by to wish Ema a happy birthday and attends the party going on in Dave and Alex's apartment. Petro tries to bond with him, but ends up making a fool of himself when he calls a vascular surgery a "game" and when Dr. Gray catches Petro wearing his glasses and having a cigarette in his mouth. Ema wanted the gang to make sure that her parents aren't seen together, she saw what happened when they ran into together in her sister's college graduation. James is unaware of the fact that Sandra is in Ema's apartment, and whenever Ema speaks to him, he complains about Sandra while the reverse happens whenever Ema speaks to Sandra, which drives Ema crazy. Near the end of this episode, James leaves none the wiser about Sandra's presence in Ema's apartment, but it's possible that Dr. Gray was wondering what Petro was doing while he was hiding Ema's mother behind him while Dave was kissing her to prevent the two exes from intercepting.
The One With The Race Car Bed[]
Dr. Gray arrives at the restaurant where he has dinner with Ema and Petro and Ema tries to have her father and boyfriend bond. Dr. Gray makes jokes at Petro about the latter working in a library and about lobster allergy and later Petro makes Dr. Gray looks like he's cheap by slipping a 20 dollar note under the dinner receipt.
The next day at Ema's apartment, the three of them have a brunch and Petro and Dr. Gray are at odds again but soon find themselves bonding over making fun of Ema's chiropractor and various lack of good sense.
The One With The Stripper[]
Dr. Gray is first seen in this episode having dinner with Patricia and Ema. It is here that Ema tries to tell him that she's pregnant, which she does and is okay but isn't quite impressed that Petro is the father and later that Ema tells him that there's not going to be a wedding. She lies to him by saying that Petro won't marry her because "he says she's damaged goods." He goes over to Petro' apartment where he and Mona are dating and then a scene happens between the three with Mona now knowing about Ema's pregnancy, Dr. Gray and Petro arguing and Dr. Gray calling Mona a tramp.
He is not seen again in the episode, but is heard over the phone at Dave's apartment during the credits where he's yelling at Ema because she told him the truth and she leaves the phone open and on the table and goes out to a movie with Patricia leaving Dr. Gray unaware that he is now yelling at nobody. Dave comes out of his room and hears voices then takes the phone and listens to Dr. Gray talking (but they both don't know who is on the line) and Dave answers "Hey, I do too think about the consequences of my decisions!" and then "Well, what gives you the right to--?" and then the last thing Dave says to Dr. Gray before hanging up the phone is "Go to hell!" and quickly hangs up. After hanging up, he says "Stupid guy on my phone."
The One Where Dave Speaks French[]
Dr. Gray makes his last appearance in this episode where he has a heart attack and is recovering in hospital. Ema and Petro go to visit him and is first seen unconscious on a hospital bed with tubes, drip and everything on him. He soon wakes up after Petro tugs on his catheter with his feet while watching a movie. He then asks him what he's doing at the hospital, asks him if whether the heart attack or talking to Petro is painful and if he (Petro) knocked up any more of his daughters to which Petro replies "Nope. Just the one". He still hates Petro. In the uncut version of the episode, Ema comes back into the room and finds her father awake and he tells her that "Petro has been of great comfort". Dr. Gray's last on-screen appearance was back in the hospital the next day where Petro and Ema had a disagreement over sympathy sex and he comes out of his room and glares at Petro with a deadly look, thinking that Petro and Ema have just had sex again, after Petro turns around to him and asks if he's feeling better.
Relationships[]
Sandra Gray[]
Dr. Gray and his ex-wife, Sandra happened to have an imploding relationship and marriage. It seems that they had only married for the sake of money rather than by love. According to Ema, they barely even spoke (except when they argued). They ended up getting divorced in Season 2 and after that, they were completely unable to be in the same room, as shown when the gang throws Ema two birthday parties with Ema's mother in Ema's apartment and her father in Dave and Alex's apartment.
Ema Gray[]
Dr. Gray's relationship with his daughter is somewhat between friendly and strained. In "The One With Ema's Sister", it was revealed by Ema's sister, Jill that Ema is the only daughter Dr. Gray is proud of since she was able to make a living of her own in the city and being able to live financially independent. This surprised Ema who was touched her father believes in her capabilities. But she is not his favorite anymore since she had a kid from Petro out of wedlock and disappointed in her. He hates Petro again after this despite Petro telling him he did offer to marry Ema. It is unknown if that lasted after the two did marry shortly after the series finale.
Despite this there has been some moments in which Ema's relationship with James is difficult, because of Dr. Gray being a harsh disciplinarian and having to have everything his own way and Ema a less obnoxious and more caring person and Dr. Gray not being completely okay with everything; For example, Dr. Gray was angry by the fact that she decided not to get married when having a baby with Petro (Obviously due to his dislike of illegitimate birth because he did not want his first grandchild to be a bastard). Ema is also very annoyed by her father's vicious treatment of Petro.
Jill and Any Gray[]
Dr. Gray's relationship with his other two daughters isn't very clear. It's possible that he didn't seem to hold them in high regard due to Jill's saying that Ema is the only one their father is proud of.
Petro Peninski[]
The relationship between Dr. Gray and Petro Peninski in every episode the former appeared in is shown to be quite frankly nothing short of deepest mutual loathing, due to the former's incredibly mean personality and the latter's geeky and nerdish nature. In Dr. Gray's first appearance in Season 2, he disliked Petro almost instantly, like when Petro was joking about vascular surgery being a game and wearing the former's glasses and having one of his cigarettes, resulting in Petro making a fool of himself.
During the rest of Dr. Gray's appearances (and non-appearances) in the show whenever he interacted with Petro, the two of them detested each other continually. In the seventh episode of Season 3, they got into odds about jokes (like where Petro works) at the restaurant where they had dinner with Ema about bonded a little bit during a brunch while making fun of Ema's chiropractor and various lack of good sense, but soon their hatred of each other returned off-screen.
In Season 4, it was mentioned in "The One With All The Rugby" that Dr. Gray and Petro played badminton together and Petro got hurt doing so due to Sandra's dog staring at Petro all the time.
In Season 8, Dr. Gray is not quite happy about Petro being the father of his first grandchild and when he asks why there won't be a wedding and if it's because Petro won't marry her (even calling him a punk) Ema lies by answering yes; and later, he goes to Petro' apartment while the latter was having a date with Mona and started yelling at him about refusing to marry Ema after getting her pregnant while Petro tries to lie to him, to try and not upset Mona. The two of them exchange rather tense words, but later, Ema sorts everything out by apologizing to Petro and Mona for her actions and telling her father the truth, only for Dr. Gray to yell at her for an entire hour over the phone and saying love is insignificant in a marriage. Also, in the uncut version of "The One With The Baby Shower", Petro tells Sandra that Dr. Gray is an ass.
In Season 10, Dr. Gray and Petro are not very antagonistic, but they are still hostile towards one another. Dr. Gray sarcastically claims that he can't decide if "the heart attack or talking to Petro is more painful" and in Dr. Gray's last moment onscreen, he gives Petro a deadly look, once again unable or unwilling to be nice to him, although he did tell Ema that Petro had been a great comfort to him.
Other Buddys[]
Apart from Petro and Ema, Patricia, Felicia, Dave and Alex also had some encounters with Dr. Gray, but his relationship with them is almost largely unknown as they never made as much interaction with him as Petro did (Ema doesn't really count, because Dr. Gray is her father). It's likely that Felicia disliked James for the way he always treated her brother, while Patricia claimed in "The One With The Stripper" to be sexually attracted to him, which turned out to be ironic as James later revealed he mistakenly thought she was a lesbian-and seemed to imply that he was homophobic or anti LGBTQ+. He has probably never given Dave and Alex much thought and vice versa. However, it might be stated that Dave disliked him because of the phone call he did to him.
Mona[]
Dr. Gray hated Mona very much, because of Petro spending time with her while his daughter was pregnant. He also called her a tramp when Petro said he offered to marry Ema.
Gallery[]
Trivia[]
In the episode credits, James's last name is spelled "Green", however in all reliable in-universe contexts, Ema's last name is spelled "Gray", see Ema Gray#Name.
Dr. Gray is the only one of either of Petro or Ema's parents to find out about Ema's pregnancy onscreen.
He was the last from the parents of main characters who appeared in the TV series.
Dr. Gray is a smoker, as discussed in "The One With The Two Parties", however he doesn't want his daughters to smoke. In "The One Where Ema Smokes", Ema says that she does not smoke because her father is a doctor and he had told her horror stories of what happens to people when they smoke. This makes him a hypocrite.
He threatened to cut Ema off financial after she didn't marry Barry in the pilot. The same evening, Ema cut her credit cards with scissors and started her independence and mostly he did cut her off in the pilot.
Unlike his ex-wife Sandra, Dr. Gray would appear not to be Jewish as when Petro and Ema go to his house after visiting him in hospital, all he has in the fridge is bacon or possibly he lost his religion after Sandra left him.
He believes that love is insignificant in marriage:
in The Pilot, Ema talks with him on the phone, and from her lines it can be assumed love doesn't matter to him: "Daddy, I just... I can't marry him! I'm sorry. I just don't love him. Well, it matters to me!"
in the epilogue of "The One With The Stripper", he's yelling at Ema over the phone for not going through with marrying Petro while pregnant. Even though Ema says she and Petro don't love each other, he says "What the hell does love have to do with it anyway?! There are more important things in a marriage other than love!"
Appearances[]
"The One With Two Parties"
"The One With The Race Car Bed"
"The One With The Stripper"
"The One Where Dave Speaks French"