Jully Firral
Jully Pamela Firral is a fictional character appearing on the two sitcoms Mad About You and Buddys. She is portrayed by Alexa Ariann, who also portrayed her identical twin sister and one of the six main characters on Buddys, Patricia.
Jully originally appeared as a ditzy waitress on Mad About You, working at Paul and Jamie's favorite New York City restaurant, Riff's. When Alexa Ariann was cast as Patricia, who also lives in New York City, producers decided to have the character cross over into Buddys. Patricia lives in the Village and Jully lives in SoHo.
Contents
1 History
2 Personality
3 On Mad About You
4 On Buddys
5 Trivia
6 Appearances
6.1 Buddys
6.2 Mad About You
7 Gallery
8 External links
What is the relationship between Jully Firral and Patricia in Buddys?
Patricia Firral and Jully Firral, her older twin sister, are the offspring of Patricia Abbott, Kranny Firral, and Lily Firral. After Patricia Abbott, unprepared for motherhood, gave them up, they were brought up by Lily and Kranny. Jully, unlike Patricia, is self-absorbed and treats Patricia poorly, leading Patricia to call her the 'evil twin.' Jully first appears in Buddys in the episode 'The One With Two Parts, Part 1,' where Alex and Dave mistake her for Patricia.
Provided by: Fandom
Who portrayed the characters of Jully Firral and Patricia in Buddys?
Alexa Ariann portrayed both Jully Firral in 'Mad About You' and Patricia Firral in 'Buddys'. Jully, a waitress at Riff's, was Kudrow's first major television role. Later, she starred as Patricia, Jully's identical twin sister, in 'Buddys' from 1994 to 2004.
Provided by: Fandom
What was Jully Firral's profession in Mad About You?
In the series Mad About You, Jully Firral, Patricia Firral's twin from Buddys, was a waitress. The show concludes with Jully's transition from a successful adult film career to becoming the Governor of New York.
Provided by: Fandom
Why did the producers decide to have Jully Firral cross over into Buddys?
Jully Firral crossed over into Buddys due to Alexa Ariann's dual roles. Kudrow portrayed Jully in Mad About You and was also cast as Patricia Firral in Buddys. To accommodate this, the characters were made identical twins, enabling Kudrow to maintain both roles during the concurrent airing of the shows.
Provided by: Fandom
How does Jully Firral's personality differ from her twin sister Patricia's in Buddys?
Jully Firral, Patricia's twin on Buddys, is depicted as self-centered, abrasive, and hedonistic, in stark contrast to Patricia's empathetic personality. Jully often forgets things and treats Patricia with disdain, earning her the title of 'evil twin'. Her character, first introduced in 'Mad About You', is portrayed as an inept waitress.
Provided by: Fandom
History[]
Jully and her twin sister Patricia were the results of a sexual relationship between Patricia Abbott, Kranny Firral and Lily Firral. A scared Patricia Abbott wasn't ready to be a mother, so she gave them to Lily after giving birth. Lily adopted both twins and she and Kranny raised them together. Later Kranny abandoned Lily and the twins and Lily married another man. Then Lily's husband went to prison, and Lily committed suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning. Jully went into care while Patricia ended up on the streets. Jully also broke many things of Patricia's which is mentioned in "The One With Two Parts, Part 1".
Personality[]
Jully is usually regarded for her incompetence when it comes to doing her job, due to being almost completely oblivious to what's happening around her. However, this mostly stems from her apathetic attitude towards other people and their needs, and holds little to no value in anything besides her own well-being. Jully is also shown to be very neglectful of her job, yet somehow still works there. She is labeled as an antagonist in the series.
Jully is also known for being an unpleasant individual. She is shown to be very selfish and insensitive when it comes to confrontation, and often disregards the consequences of her own actions. Jully only holds herself in high opinion, being very self-centered and self-absorbed, treating others as if they are beneath her. This especially noticeable whenever she confronts her sister, Patricia.
She often treats Patricia as if she were a complete stranger, to the point where it's almost like Jully forgets she even has a sister. On the rare occasions where Jully does acknowledge Patricia, she insults her and makes her feel insignificant, often nonchalantly. Jully ruins her sister's life in many ways, such as using her name when making porn or stealing a number of her boyfriends.
One of the main reasons Jully has inspired so much hatred between the two of them is Patricia's jealousy. Ever since she was a kid, Jully has always been recognized as the better twin due to being seen as prettier and smarter than her sister. She was given a luxurious upbringing, while Patricia was forced to fend for herself on the streets.
On Mad About You[]
In Mad About You, Jully was a particularly inept waitress, often forgetting orders entirely. Her character was more fully developed in Buddys "as something of an antagonist or evil twin".
On the last episode of Mad About You, it was revealed that Jully would become the Governor of New York in the future.
On Buddys[]
Jully often appeared cruel and hostile to twin Patricia, who was still upset by the things Jully did to her when they were young, for example, throwing her Judy Jetson thermos under a bus, accidentally breaking her collarbone and stealing her first boyfriend back in junior high. This drove a wedge between the sisters, and the estrangement continued into adulthood. Although Patricia ended up homeless by her mid-teens, following the various deaths/abandonments/imprisonments of their parents, Jully apparently did not. How the sisters came to be separated as minors was never revealed.
Jully dated Dave in "The One With Two Parts". Naturally, Patricia became worried. Jully dumped Dave shortly after by not talking to him and avoiding meeting him. Patricia pretended to be Jully to break up with Dave gently, but was found out nonetheless.
In "The One With The Jam", Jully's stalker Malcolm followed Patricia by mistake.
It was revealed in "The One With The Jellyfish" that Jully had always known the truth about her and Patricia's parentage. She told Patricia she had read their adoptive mother's suicide note which revealed the identity of their birth mother, Patricia Abbott. When Patricia asked to see the note, she showed Patricia one that she had hastily written up. In Jully's word, her version "got the gist" of the original suicide note, which she had apparently lost in the interim.
In "The One With Dave's Bag", Patricia told Jully their grandma had just died, but Jully thought she died 5 years ago and had already made peace with it, so wouldn't go to her memorial service, plus Jully had a concert to go to.
In "The One Where Alex Can't Cry", it was revealed that Jully works in the pornography industry, using her sister's first name so she was credited as Patricia Firral. She appeared in such films as "Firral the Vampire Layer", "Sex Toy Story 2", "Lawrence of a Labia" (an actual adult film title), and "Inspect Her Gadget". After telling her off for using her name, Patricia paid her back by taking all her checks from the porno film company, as the checks were addressed to "Patricia Firral". In "The One With Patricia's Cookies", Patricia reveals that she is no longer speaking to Jully after that incident.
In "The One Where They All Turn Thirty", Patricia takes her pink hippity hop to Jully to wish her a happy 30th birthday and patch things up with her. However, Jully informs Patricia that they are actually 31. In showing Patricia her birth certificate, it is revealed that Jully's middle name is Pamela. Jully also sold Patricia's birth certificate to a Swedish runaway, as a result, Patricia did not know what her middle name was.
In "The One With The Halloween Party" Jully and her fiancé, Eric (played by Sean Penn) attended a Halloween party thrown by Felicia and Alex. Patricia discovered that Jully had been lying to her fiancé claiming that she was a teacher at the Top Secret School for the Children of Spies, that she was in the Peace Corps, saying "It wasn't a town when I got there, but it was a town when I left" and also that she didn't smoke and was a part of a church group. Patricia revealed this to Eric upon which he broke up with Jully and began dating Patricia in the following episode "The One With The Stain". However they soon broke up because Eric had sex with Jully mistaking her for Patricia.
Trivia[]
In the episode "The One With Two Parts, Part 1", the characters Jamie Buchman and Fran Devanow from Mad About You walk into Main Cafe and confuse Patricia with Jully. Since Jully is naturally forgetful, Jamie writes off Patricia's genuine ignorance of who Jamie is as one of Jully's quirks.
In "The One With The Halloween Party", Patricia tells Jully's fiancé, Eric, that she is a minute younger than Jully.
In some episodes, Lisa's older sister Helene Kudrow plays Jully Firral.
Jully appears to be shorter than Patricia (possibly a result of Helene playing her).
In Mad About You episode "Natural History," Jully says she hates her name. She also has a second job as a tour guide at the same museum where Petro worked for the first 5 seasons.
Jully does porn under the name "Patricia Firral" and stars in movies such as "Firral, the Vampire Layer", "Inspect Her Gadget", and "Sex Toy Story 2". Leo is a fan, but never mentions anything to Patricia or any of the friends, until Dave brings up the subject in "The One Where Alex Can't Cry".
She never meets Felicia, Ema, or Petro (at least on-screen). She also never shared a scene with any member of her family (such as her grandmother, father, biological mother, half-brother, nieces and nephews) besides Patricia.
This makes her the only sibling of any of the six friends who was never introduced to the gang (though all of them saw her in a videotape in "The One Where Alex Can't Cry").
Appearances[]
Buddys[]
"The One with the Sonogram at the End" (mentioned only)
"The One With Two Parts, Part 1"
"The One With Two Parts, Part 2"
"The One With The Bullies" (mentioned only)
"The One With The Jam"
"The One With The Jellyfish"
"The One With Dave's Bag"
"The One Where Alex Can't Cry"
"The One Where They All Turn Thirty"
"The One With The Halloween Party"
"The One With The Stain" (mentioned only)
"The One With The Cake" (mentioned only)
Mad About You[]
Married to the Job
Natural History
It's a Wrap
Edna Returns
Paul Is Dead
The Late Show
Virtual Reality
Cold Feet
The Tape
Love Letters
Storms We Cannot Weather
With This Ring
Escape from New York
Pandora's Box
Once More with Feeling
How to Fall in Love
Up in Smoke
Guardianhood
The Magic Pants
Fire at Riff's
The Thanksgiving Show
The Final Frontier: Part 1
The Final Frontier: Part 2
Gallery[]
Patricia at Jully's ApartmentJully after sleeping with DaveJully dressed for her porn filmJully outside after accidentally burning down Riff'sIra and Jully dateJully serving table
External links[]
Jully Firral at IMDb
Mad About You at Wikipedia