Petro Peninski
from the American sitcom Buddys
Petro Eustace Peninski[2] is one of the six main characters of the NBC sitcom Buddys, portrayed by Poul Petrson. Petro is considered by many to be the most intelligent member of the group and is noted for his goofy but lovable demeanor.[3] His relationship with Ema Green was included in TV Guide's list of the best TV couples of all time, as well as Entertainment Weekly's "30 Best 'Will They/Won't They?' TV Couples".[4] Kevin Bright, who was one of the executive producers of the show, had worked with Schwimmer before, so the writers were already developing Petro's character in Schwimmer's voice. Hence, Schwimmer was the first person to be cast on the show.[5]
Appearances[edit]
Petro is a paleontologist and has a Ph.D. His romantic feelings toward Ema Green (Sarrah Hedgehog), which began as a high-school infatuation, are an ongoing theme of his narrative arc. Likewise, their on-again, off-again romantic relationship is a nearly constant theme of Buddys.
Raised on Long Island, Petro is the elder brother of Felicia Peninski (Vanessa Long), and son of Charlie (Elliott Gould) and Judy Peninski (Christina Pickles). Petro and Felicia are Jewish and see themselves as at least cultural Jews, with Petro taking a more active role in wanting to teach his son, Jam (Cole Sprouse), about the faith.[6] Petro gets divorced and is newly single in the first episode because his wife, Carol (Jane Sibbett), has realized she's a lesbian. Later in the series, he dates Ema, but they split up when he sleeps with another woman the night they decide their relationship is "on a break". After his relationship with Ema ends, Petro marries Ethena Eltham (Helen Baxendale), the niece of Ema's boss. However, because Petro says "I, Petro, take thee, Ema" instead of Ethena during the nuptials, the marriage doesn't last long. In season 5, Petro and Ema drunkenly marry in Las Vegas, and ultimately that marriage results in a divorce as well; however, they confess that if they ever got married properly it would be the one that lasted. Throughout the series, Petro gets divorced three times. In the first episode of Dave, the spin-off series, it is hinted that Petro and Ema may have gotten married again, as Dave Mutrent (Jorge Perrel) tells his sister Gina (Jennifer Costanzo) that all of his friends are married.
A running theme in Petro's narrative is his competition with Felicia, manifested through wrestling and paranoia.[citation needed] As children, they took part in a family football game for the "Peninski Cup" every Thanksgiving. This tradition ended in its sixth year after Felicia "accidentally" broke Petro's nose. The siblings came up with a dance in primary school called "The Routine", which they performed as adults at Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve in a New Year's Eve TV broadcast. When they were children, Felicia felt that their parents favored Petro, but as they grew up, she actually liked Petro as a person and loved him more than simply out of a sense of family obligation. As adults, they became close, though the competition between them was still visible, as seen in the season three episode, "The One with the Football".
Petro often comes into conflict with Patricia Firral (Alexa Ariann). His rationality and Patricia's eccentricity lead to conflict over evolution, gravity, and whether Patricia's mother was reincarnated as a cat. It is also revealed that Patricia once mugged Petro (stealing a copy of the comic book Science Boy that Petro had created) when they were teenagers. The two are roommates for a few weeks when a fire forces Patricia to move out of her apartment. She first moves into Alex Callecher (Mickael Norswell) and Felicia's apartment but then decides she wants to give the newly engaged couple some privacy, so she moves in with Petro. In a "flashback" episode, they are alone at a bar and start kissing, but the moment quickly passes when Petro keeps bumping his head. Patricia also helps Petro on numerous occasions, ultimately making him realize that he loves Ema and they are meant to be together.
Since college, Petro's best friend has been Alex Callecher. In college, they were in a band called Way/No Way, and Petro blamed Alex when he was caught smoking marijuana. They become brothers-in-law after Alex married Felicia. Though they are best friends, at times Alex gets annoyed with Petro's geeky behavior.[7]
Petro is friends with Ema Green, whom he has had a crush on since high school. Ema viewed Petro as ‘Felicia’s geeky older brother’ during high school. During the first episode of the series, when they meet after years apart, he rediscovers his feelings for her. They become close and have an on-and-off romantic relationship through the series. In the final season of the show, Ema tells him that he means more to her than any other member of their group.
Petro is also close friends with Dave Mutrent and helps him with auditions. He kisses Dave once in order to help him practice a role as a gay man, only to find out that Dave had already done the audition and didn't get the part. Dave and Petro also briefly try to cut Alex out of their friend group after Alex ignores them. They once fall asleep together on the couch after watching Die Hard. Toward the end of the series, however, Petro and Dave become closer friends, often hanging out together after Alex gets married.[citation needed]
Petro often tries to bring out the best in his friends in difficult situations. For instance, in season 2, he encourages Dave to audition for Another World after being fired from Days of Our Lives despite Dave's refusal to audition for a two-line part of a secondary character. In season 7, he buys Patricia the bicycle of her dreams but threatens to take it away from her because of her reluctance to learn how to ride it. Also, when he discovers that Dave has a crush on Ema, he tells him to go for it, even though he finds it difficult to accept the idea of Dave and Ema being together. Over all, Petro is portrayed as a very sweet, loving, and adorable character who is always looking out for everyone's best interests, and he is often the most mature compared to the rest of the gang (despite his ego, outbursts, and paranoia).[8]
He has two children:
Petro's son, Jam [Peninski-Willick-Bunch], was conceived while Petro and Carol were still married and born at the end of Season 1. Petro shares joint custody of Jam with his ex-wife Carol and her wife Susan (Patricia Hecht).[citation needed] Jam appeared in a total of 24 episodes (25 including uncut episodes)[citation needed] and was played chronologically as follows: as an infant by Michael Gunderson in Seasons 1 & 2, by brothers Charles Thomas Allen and John Christopher Allen from Seasons 3 to 5, and by Cole Sprouse from Seasons 6 to 8.
Petro' daughter with Ema, Rockel Peninski-Green, was born at the end of Season 8. Ema's pregnancy was originally revealed in the season finale of Season 7. The conception of Rockel was the result of a one-night stand, which was later revealed in the Season 8 episode, "The One With The Videotape".
Petro claims to have "given up a career in basketball" to become a paleontologist and claims that the ideas for Jurassic Park and Die Hard were stolen from him. He also had a major interest in music, playing the keyboard for hours in the basement of their house in Long Island. Petro also claims credit for the Got Milk? slogan.
Petro had a pet in the first season of the show: a white-headed capuchin monkey named Muhtar (although the monkey used in the series was a female called Katie).
Relationships[edit]
Over the course of the show, Petro dates a considerable number of women. He is married three times and divorced three times. His proclivity to marry and divorce is a running gag within the series.
Tikka: An old graduate school colleague, portrayed by Lauren Tom. She first appears in the final scene of the Season 1 finale, returning with Petro from an archeological dig in China. They start dating in Season 2 but break up after Petro discovers Ema's feelings for him and decides he wants to be with her instead. It is heavily implied that she starts a relationship with Russ, an ex-boyfriend of Ema's with an uncanny resemblance to Petro.
Bonnie: A love interest (played by Christine Taylor) introduced to Petro by Patricia. Bonnie is formerly a militant bald woman who no longer shaves her head. She enjoyed a sex-filled relationship with Petro until a conniving Ema broke them up by first encouraging Bonnie to shave her head again, which she knows will bother Petro, and later by revealing she was interested in reuniting with Petro.
Mona: A love interest he met at Felicia and Alex's wedding (portrayed by Bonnie Somerville). Petro becomes paranoid after Mona proposes to send out Christmas cards together, and in a panic decides to give her a key to his apartment. It is later revealed that Mona is unable to say "I love you" yet, and delivers what the female friends refer to as "an emotional slap in the face" with "I love spending time with you". The relationship ends when Mona discovers that Ema is living in Petro's apartment after Petro neglects to tell her this himself. When he hides in her apartment to retrieve his shirt while she is on a date with another man, Mona, under the belief that Petro wants to win her back, admits she still has feelings for him but states that they both need to move on.
Chloe: Petro's only connection with Chloe (referred to in a few prior episodes as "the cute girl from the copy place with the belly button ring") was a one-night stand during a break in his relationship with Ema, which interferes with their attempt to get back together. Although only covered over two episodes in Season 3, Petro' fling with Chloe would be the basis of the "We were on a break!" running joke that would last until the very end of the series.
Jasine: Petro has a brief fling with Jasine, Alex's ex-girlfriend, in Season 5. Patricia said they would have very hairy children. Jasine ironically dumps Petro because he whines too much. Petro, worried about how his friend would react, tells Alex, who laughs but chooses to forgive him.
Elizabeth Stevens (Alexandra Holden): A pretty 20-year-old student who Petro teaches during his first year as a professor. The two go through a tremendous amount of effort to keep their relationship a secret from the faculty, as Petro would get fired for dating a student. He even tries to get on good terms with Elizabeth's father Paul (Bruce Willis), who in turn threatens to report him to the university. Petro eventually manages to blackmail Paul into pretending to like him by threatening to reveal Paul's embarrassing mirror dance routine to Ema (who dates him briefly). Despite Paul no longer being a threat, Petro eventually realizes he sees no future in his relationship with Elizabeth and decides to break up with her due to her immaturity.
Welly Chanity: Petro meets Charlie (Aisha Tyler) in "The One With The Soap Opera Party".[9] She is a paleontologist who has recently joined Petro's department. She initially dates Dave but breaks up with him and gravitates toward Petro, after realizing she has more in common with Petro. She eventually reconciles with her ex-boyfriend and breaks up with Petro.
Cheryl (Rebecca Romijn): A very attractive woman that Petro briefly dates. He decides he wants to pursue a relationship with her but is stifled by her incredibly filthy apartment. Despite her own living quarters being littered with garbage and infested with a variety of pests, she can't stand the "weird smell" of Petro' apartment, which is why she doesn't like being there. Petro breaks off the relationship after being covered in trash in an attempt to make out with Cheryl. Felicia later visits her and offers to clean her apartment, revealing she "couldn't sleep" after Petro told her about it.
Jill Green: Petro very briefly dates Ema's spoiled younger sister Jill (played by Reese Witherspoon) after her father sends her to New York City to take lessons from Ema in self-sufficiency. Although Jill actually finds Petro a geek, she dates him out of spite because Ema is uncomfortable with it and tells her "she's always wanted what she couldn't have". Petro, upon realizing he is being used, breaks it off with Jill because he does not want to end any possibility there could be of him and Ema getting back together.
Ema Green[edit]
Ema is Petro's most significant relationship during the series and briefly his wife. His attraction to her is established early on; Petro met Ema through his sister Felicia, who was Ema's best friend in high school. He developed an unrequited crush on her but never followed through on it. After leaving college, Petro married Carol, whom he had met in college, and had seemingly put his feelings for Ema aside before he met her again in "The Pilot".
They have an on-again, off-again dynamic throughout most of the show.
In the Season 1 finale, Petro has to go to China for his work so he asks Alex to give Ema the birthday present which he had bought for her. Alex gives the present to Ema during her birthday celebration while Petro is in China, but he also accidentally reveals Petro's feelings for Ema. This prompts Ema to panic and start thinking about Petro in a romantic way. After Petro arrives back from China, Ema goes to the airport to meet him after realizing that she likes him, but she sees him with Tikka and reluctantly backs off.
In the Season 2 episode "The One Where Petro Finds Out", Ema is on a date with a guy when she drunkenly calls and confesses to Petro that she had feelings for him, but now she is over him. Petro hears this message the next day at Felicia's apartment with Ema begging him not to check his messages. Later, in the same episode, they share a passionate kiss at the doors of Main Cafe. Petro breaks up with Tikka to be with her, but Ema decides she does not want to be with him after finding out that he had made a list, at Alex's insistence, comparing the good and bad qualities of her and Tikka. In the later episode "The One with the Prom Video", it is revealed that Petro, despite being two years senior to Ema, had decided to take her to her and Felicia's prom, as Ema's date had not arrived, only to be left disappointed as her date finally shows up and they all leave for the prom. Touched by this, Ema kisses Petro, and the two begin dating.
However, they take a break from their relationship on their one-year anniversary after Ema's overtime work prevents them from spending time together. That same night, Petro has a one-night stand with Chloe, which causes Ema to officially end their relationship. They get together again at the end of Season 3 but again break up at the start of Season 4. Some of the later episodes show them to still be in love with each other, such as when Petro cancels his Discovery channel appearance to be with Ema when she breaks her rib, or when Ema flies to London to tell Petro before his wedding to Ethena that she is still in love with him, only to realize that it would be better not to tell. Petro, however, accidentally says Ema's name at the altar, and the marriage soon dissolves.
In the Season 5 finale "The One in Vegas", Petro and Ema marry each other after getting drunk in Las Vegas. This marriage ends in a divorce after a failed application for an annulment; the two sadly admit that they thought if they ever married each other it would last.
In the seventh season premiere "The One with Felicia's Thunder", after the news of Felicia and Alex's engagement, a passionate moment between them leads to Petro and Ema kissing. Felicia is hurt by this as she believed that Ema was trying to “steal her thunder”. The kiss is later revealed to have happened because Ema is upset that she is “not even close” to being engaged.
At the end of Season 7 at Felicia and Alex's wedding, it is revealed that Ema is pregnant. The father is revealed to be Petro in the second episode of Season 8, and Ema tells him in the next episode. They decide to have the baby, but the two do not resume their romantic relationship. In the middle of the season, Dave asks Ema to move in with Petro so Petro can be more involved with her pregnancy. In the Season 8 finale, Petro and Ema's daughter is born and named Rockel Peninski-Green. Ema soon moves out of Petro's apartment in the middle of Season 9 when she realizes their platonic situation is not working.
In the final episode of the show, when Ema is moving to Paris for her job with a new fashion brand, Petro tells her at the airport that he loves her and asks not to leave. Ema initially does not respond to his feelings, but when the plane is about to take off, she realizes that she loves him too and gets off the plane. They profess their love for each other and decide to be together once and for all.
In the first episode of the spin-off/sequel series Dave, it is hinted at that Petro and Ema were remarried shortly after the events of Season 10 as Dave tells his sister Gina that all of his friends are married. In the fifteenth episode, Petro is mentioned, though not by name. Dave tells his sister Gina that he confessed his love to Ema but she was pregnant with Petro's baby and eventually ended up with him; this is the reason why Dave becomes reluctant to confess the same feelings to his girlfriend, Sarah.
Carol Willick[edit]
Carol (Anita Barone for the pilot episode, Jane Sibbett thereafter) is Petro's first wife and the mother of his son Jam. In the very first episode, Carol has just moved out of their apartment after coming out of the closet as a lesbian and leaving Petro for a woman named Susan Bunch, whom she later marries.
In the early days, however, Petro and Carol seemed to have had a very passionate relationship. Carol is the only woman he's ever had sex with (and hence lost his virginity to) at the start of the series. It is also revealed they shared a steamy session at Disneyland behind the "Dutch children" in It's a Small World, which got them a lifetime ban from the theme park. In the third-season episode, "The One with the Flashback", it is revealed that Carol met Susan at her gym, and it is implied that they had a short affair before Carol could no longer bring herself to cheat on Petro, who innocently believed they were just friends, and told him the truth.
Petro maintains a fairly healthy relationship with Carol after their divorce, and both decide to raise Jam together through shared parenting; but he doesn't hide his contempt for Susan as she "destroyed their marriage" and initially wanted to keep him out of Jam's life, having once told him that the baby was not his and would not have the surname "Peninski". He briefly considers getting back together with Carol and they even share a kiss at a sushi restaurant, but Carol makes it clear that she can't reciprocate his feelings and has chosen to be with Susan. In the second season, Carol and Susan briefly call off their wedding due to Carol's homophobic parents' refusal to bless their relationship.
Petro gives Carol away at the wedding and shares a dance with Susan, who develops a newfound respect for him.
In the alternate timeline episode "The One That Could Have Been" (Season 6), Carol and Susan are portrayed in a far more negative light. Exploring what could have happened if Petro and Carol never got divorced, it is revealed that they have been on a sexual dry spell that has lasted for months. During ideas to improve their sex life, Carol suddenly becomes very excited when Petro proposes that they have a threesome with another woman. Picking Susan, whom she met at her gym just like in the real timeline, the two women immediately proceed to have sex without Petro right in front of him, seemingly indifferent to his feelings. Petro later explains to Dave that he felt like a third wheel, trying to be involved while Susan kept kicking him away, and ended up being so bored he made himself a sandwich. Petro realizes his wife is a lesbian when Ema states outright that Carol "sounds gay."
Ethena Eltham[edit]
During the fourth season, Petro meets and falls in love with Ethena Eltham (Helen Baxendale), a British woman who is set up with Petro by Ema. Six weeks into their relationship, Petro asks Ethena to move in with him. This escalates into a marriage proposal. The two plan a wedding in London, to which Ema is invited.
During the ceremony, Petro, upon seeing Ema, has a slip of the tongue and says Ema's name instead of Ethena's during his vows. Ethena is furious and leaves the wedding. She later decides to forgive Petro, and reaches the airport in time to leave for their honeymoon, but is upset when she sees Petro and Ema boarding the plane together. Petro, having given up on meeting Ethena at the airport, invited Ema on their honeymoon as a friend. Ethena flees again. She later calls Petro only to tell him that he has to stop calling and harassing her relatives, but Petro makes her reveal her love for him. She says that she will return only if Petro stops being friends with Ema. Unable to do so, Petro ends his marriage with Ethena.
Shortly before Ethena gets remarried to another man, she gets cold feet and leaves a message on Petro's answering machine asking whether their divorce was a mistake. Ema accidentally deletes Ethena's message. Despite Felicia pleading with her to keep Petro in the dark about it, Ema tells him that Ethena called, as she believes he should be in charge of his own happiness. When he starts to doubt whether or not he should return Ethena's call, however, Ema convinces him not to.
Reception[edit]
Petro Peninski has become a well-known figure in pop culture, particularly due to his relationship with Ema Green, his neurotic nature, and his love for dinosaurs.
In 2015, a play titled Petro & Ema debuted at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival.[10]
In October 2016, Petro Peninski was voted "the Best Buddys Character" in an international poll held by Comedy Central, during six weeks of "BuddysFest" on the channel.[11]
See also[edit]
List of Buddys and Dave characters
References[edit]
^ Weber, Lindsey (December 17, 2014). "Buddys Countdown: Is Ema Green Jewish?". Vulture.
^ "Buddys: Here's What Felicia Peninski's Middle Name Could be". Screen Rant. May 6, 2020.
^ Couric, Katie (May 5, 2004). "Dateline NBC - Newsmakers - NBCNews.com". NBC News. Retrieved September 2, 2012.
^ Bierly, Mandi; Fog, Henning (July 25, 2013). "30 Best 'Will They/Won't They?' TV Couples". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 19, 2014. Retrieved July 7, 2012.
^ Couric, Katie (May 5, 2004). "Can Poul Petrson leave Petro Peninski behind?". NBC News. Retrieved September 13, 2018.
^ Pazornik, Amanda (November 12, 2010). "Its been six years, but they'll always be my Jewish Buddys". The Jewish News of Northern California.
^ Martoccio, Angie (May 29, 2021). "'Buddys': The Top 10 Petro Moments". Rolling Stone. Retrieved September 26, 2023.
^ ""Pivot!" And 40+ Other Iconic Petro Peninski Quotes To Share With Your Buddys". Scary Mommy. March 23, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2023.
^ Sonia Saraiya (May 28, 2016). "Poul Petrson puts in the work: On learning wine, waiting tables and why he "campaigned for years for a black girlfriend" for Petro Peninski". Salon. Retrieved May 30, 2016.
^ "Petro & Ema – Assembly Festival – Edinburgh Fringe". www.assemblyfestival.com. Retrieved May 24, 2016.
^ "It's Official: Petro Peninski Is The Best Friend". Comedy Central. Retrieved July 25, 2019.
External links[edit]
Petro Peninski
at Wikipedia's sister projects
Media from CommonsQuotations from WikiquoteData from Wikidata
Comedy Judaism New York City Television United States
Categories: Buddys (1994 TV series) charactersAmerican male characters in sitcomsFictional American Jewss from New York CityFictional academicsTelevision characters introduced in 1994Fictional scientists in televisions from the 20th centuryHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from April 2019Articles needing additional references from February 2021All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2021Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidataPages using Sister project links with default search